# Exploratory Data Analysis

## Business Goals
1. Determine overall and distinct user frequency trends of subreddit posts and comments.
2. Gain an understanding of distinguished, gilded, and controversial posts and comments among all subreddits as well as the users of each subreddit.
3. Determine and visualize the 50 highest scored posts across political subreddits.
4. Understand the temporal effects of the number of posts across political subreddits.
5. Determine shared user interaction across political subreddits.
6. Measure the similarity between political and finance/macroeconomic topics discussed among grouped political and economics subreddits.
7. Explore the activity of `r/Economics` submissions based on the state of the economy.

## Technical Proposal
1. We start by visualizing each of the nine subreddits' posts by grouping data on the subreddit and posted date (`year` and `month` features engineered from `created_utc`) and then aggregating the counts of posts over time. Doing so allows us to gauge periods of intense activity in specific subreddits, which could be attributed to significant political and economic events. We use the same grouped data but now aggregate on the `author` column to get distinct users over time for each subreddit to obtain an idea of unique user participation and differences in user diversity and engagement.  We then repeat the same process for comments.
2. Use data grouped on `subreddit` to gather the normalized counts of posts and comments that are `gilded` (the number of times a post/comment received Reddit gold), `distinguished` (whether the moderators or admins make the post/comment), and controversial (whether a post/comment received a large number of both upvotes and downvotes). The higher the counts of these variables, the more likely a reddit user will come across and interact with those posts or comments. The same data wrangling is done next but with `author` added as grouping variable. The counts of users posting or commenting across multiple subreddits are calculated, and a table with the top 50 posts (based on upvotes) from each subreddit is presented. Doing so allows us to identify the most active users across subreddits.
3. Each submission and comment receives a `score`, which is calculated as the number of upvotes minus the number of downvotes as voted by the respective subreddit users. We use the data grouped by subreddit to gather the top 50 posts with the highest scores (based on upvotes and downvotes) from each subreddit. After obtaining the data, we create a HighChartJS Packed Bubble chart, where the size of each bubble corresponds to the score of individual posts, and the size of the larger bubbles represents the cumulative scores of posts from each subreddit. This vizualization allows us to identify which subreddits’ content resonates the most with its users.
4. Use data grouped on `subreddit`, `month`, and `day` of the week and then aggregate the counts of posts. Create a HighChartJS Heatmap chart for each subreddit, where a greater color intensity corresponds with more posts. Doing so helps us identify distinct seasonal patterns to understand when users are most active in each subreddit.
5. Use datasets that cover all pairwise combinations of political subreddits, joined based on common authors to gather the counts of authors posting in multiple subreddits. Create a HighChartJS Dependency Wheel chart based on the number of authors for each pairwise subreddit combination. The chart provides insights into which subreddits have the most shared users, which could be attributed to similar content or user demographics.
6. We first group politics and economics subreddit submissions and filter subreddits for post body (`selftext`) and for post `title` (two-part analysis). Then, using regex, we identify posts that mention keywords pertaining to politics and economics and gather the counts for each grouped subreddit that contains the keywords mentioned above. Next, we independently calculate the cosine similarity and Jaccard similarity measures for the counts for both post titles and post bodies, resulting in two tables (one for post body and another for post title). A high cosine similarity implies that the two documents have similar distributions of words, even though the counts of individual words may be different. To correctly measure the similarity between the counts of words in the two documents, we use another similarity metric, the Jaccard index. By selecting keywords that are most similar across the two subreddits, we can identify context similarities between the two subreddits and the distribution of the keywords across the two subreddits.
7. Combine data on the number of posts and comment scores (derived from upvotes and downvotes) with external GDP data gathered from the [`FRED` python package](https://pypi.org/project/fred/). Perform a time window shift of GDP data (since it's lagged by three months). Visualize the subreddit post activity with the GDP data with HighChartJS. With the help of this time-series visualization, we can identify patterns in GDP growth and its effects on the activity of the `r/Economics` subreddit.
